Week 5 - 2/5/2018

This week I assisted in responding to two inquiries the department received from other library staff members:
  - First, a librarian requested information regarding the validity of an electronic signature on an agreement made with a library user. The user, who is not part of the university community, requested online access to materials held in a library archive. When considering such requests, the library asks users to complete a form indicating that they will use the materials for "private study, scholarship, or research," and understand that use of the materials is governed by U.S. copyright law. Rather than physically signing the agreement and sending back a photograph or scan, the user, who lives in another state, returned a version with their name typed into the signature line, something which the librarian had not previously encountered. Although typed electronic signatures without further verification mechanisms are now accepted as legally binding in most states, Washington's law on this issue is somewhat unclear, making what seemed a straightforward question more complex than anticipated. Out of caution, a physical signature was requested from the library user.
  - Second, a library staff member inquired regarding the legal availability of geographic data published by government sources for compilation into a larger mapping project. I discussed the licenses and terms of service applicable to data from the relevant sources with the staff member, noting possible conflicts between them and potential risks that could arise depending on how the final mapping project may be published or used.

In addition to these inquiries, I began preliminary exploration of services provided by academic libraries with respect to text and data mining for a project of interest to the department's digital scholarship and data services librarians, with plans to continue this research over the remainder of my DFW placement.
