Week 4 - 1/29/2018

Much of this week focused on classroom instruction sessions. On Monday, my supervisor and I co-presented on copyright and fair use issues to an undergraduate class studying gender issues in fandom communities. The classroom in which the session took place presented some challenges as students were dispersed over a large area, making it difficult to see, let alone engage, much of our audience. As such, while the instructor indicated she thought our session was successful, we left feeling uncertain as to how much of our content had been effectively conveyed. For me, this session was especially useful as a learning experience in adapting to unexpected teaching conditions and understanding the challenges of being a 'one-shot' guest instructor in an ongoing course.

By contrast, our second instruction session this week was delivered to a small group of students who were more than eager to participate in discussion. This class, a French course for senior undergraduates, focuses on the challenges of digitizing French ephemera, and its instructor invited us to provide perspective on both domestic and international copyright issues. We focused on the Google Books case (*Author's Guild v. Google, Inc.*) as an example of how digitization will be examined by courts, using the decision as an opportunity to dig into the concept of fair use. The students were highly engaged and posed interesting questions about the role of intellectual property law in the digital era.    

Both instruction sessions also sparked ideas for our longer-term workshop planning, as they involved fair use examples focused on 'transformative' uses beyond the parody, satire, and commentary examples we had used in last week's classroom session. As fair use issues involving reference works and digitization will likely be of significant interest to library staff, we planned to incorporate them into our future fair use workshop.

I was also able to assist in reviewing a scholarly publishing contract this week and to participate in communicating the results of this review to the authors, who have planned to raise relevant concerns with their publisher. This experience was particularly illuminating as to the challenges researchers face in coordinating the often stringent demands of publishers with their own institution's open access and repository requirement.

Finally, I assisted in responding to an inquiry from the music library regarding potential digitization of donated sound recordings. As the recordings were on reel-to-reel tapes, I needed to assess whether this would be considered an 'obsolete format' under section 108 of the Copyright Act, as well as think about concerns regarding previous publication of the same recordings by another library.
