Week 8 - 2/26/2018

This week involved having to postpone delivery of the fair use workshop for library staff from the Winter Quarter to the Spring Quarter due to unforeseen circumstances. Although I will not be continuing as a DFW student during that time, I plan to co-present the workshop on a volunteer basis and hope we can use the extra time for additional promotion to potential participants.

Despite this change in scheduling, my supervisor and I decided to conduct this week's planned workshop practice session utilizing the Zoom interface. The session took place in the room where we will eventually hold the workshop, which provided me with an opportunity to think through the practical considerations of offering a hybrid learning program. I had previously used Zoom for online webinars as both a participant and as a presenter, but had not yet been the primary host of a Zoom meeting or used to Zoom to bridge in-person and online participation. Practicing with Zoom allowed me to understand how to set up a session and select appropriate camera and microphone settings, in addition to surfacing more complex concerns. For instance, we intend to use an in-room whiteboard to note specific fair use arguments participant groups make while considering factual scenarios. However, conducting the practice session made apparent that online participants would be unable to view the whiteboard unless we continually shifted the camera view between the board and the presenters. Testing Zoom's own whiteboard feature, through which we can electronically record notes that will be both projected in person and available in a separate window to online participants, provided an alternative solution. Overall, I left convinced of the importance of familiarizing yourself with both the physical and electronic spaces in which an instruction session will be held, and believe our workshop will run much more smoothly for having done so.  
