Week 6 - 2/12/2018

This week, I researched additional issues that have arisen as the library's reviews its procedures for gifts and donations. In response to an inquiry, I investigated whether an entity that receives an exclusive license to copyrighted material has the same authority to sublicense, assign, or otherwise transfer some or all of the licensed rights to a third party that the copyright owner possesses. Although exclusive licenses are considered a 'transfer of ownership' under the 1976 Copyright Act, courts appear to have taken the position that the Act did not alter the presumption that exclusives licensees cannot sublicense or transfer rights without the consent of the copyright owner.  

Continuing the preparation for our fair use workshop, my supervisor and I met with a librarian who focuses on online learning in order to develop ways in which to incorporate online participants into our planned event. Together, we came up with a number of ways in which we can adapt the format of our presentation to better include online participants, including forming breakout groups within the Zoom meeting interface and ensuring that all handouts are available in electronic format. In particular, we determined that it would be beneficial to designate an individual who will be physically present at the workshop to monitor and assist online participants throughout the meeting. Following the meeting, I arranged for another graduate student with experience working in Zoom to act in this role and discussed our proposed workshop format with them. Finally, we also used this week to advertise and promote our workshop to potential participants by drafting workshop annoucements for inclusion in library staff newsletters and contacting the coordinators' of the library's student training program.
